- Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?

  This app is intended to be used by users who wish to maintain and keep track of a simple list. The list can be tailored towards anything like the food they have left in the kitchen, or a collection of books. The user is able to set the name of the item, the quantity, the details, and the date the item was obtained. Additionally, the user can choose to have messages sent to them so that they are notified when an item in the list becomes low on stock. This was done for the scenario where multiple users have access to the same list together, so when something is set at or below a quantity of 5, all users connected will be notified. In order to have this functionality implemented, I utilized the SMS permissions and SQLite to maintain the database of users and items in the list.


- What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?

  In order to begin using the app, the user must sign up for the app from the signin screen first. Once the user is signed up, they are taken to the SMS screen where they will either grant or deny SMS permissions. Either way, they will proceed from this screen to the main screen where they will be able to being using CRUD to add, update, or delete an item from the list. Anything that occurs is updated on the display and is shown to the user. The app's design is straightforward since it contains this one main screen. The add button takes the width of the screen at the top, and its light purple color makes it large and easily noticeable to the user. The items displayed in the list are spaced far enough apart to make reading each item easy and clear, it avoids a clutter of text stacked closely on top of each other. The red Delete button within the container for each item stands out from the black background and white text, allowing the user to easily spot the button. The logout button in the top right corner is also easy to spot, and it gives provides further basic functionality for the user.


- How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?

  Going into the process of coding this application, I did my own research by looking over official documentation provided for Android Studio to gain an understanding of the best practices I should follow when developing an Android application. This allowed me to gain an insight into how UI is implemented alongside how Java uses this AI to provide functionality for the app. The documentation also helped with giving me an understanding of how SQLite is utilized for an app such as mine. Beyond official documentation, I tend to look over videos and articles provided by more experienced developers. This gives me a deeper understanding by seeing their persepctive and getting their explanation of things that may not have been as clearly covered in the documentation. Utilizing AI was also impactful for me. If I found myself confused with a particular part, like if I am stuck on an error, then I may paste the error over to the AI to see if the AI will explain what the issue is and what caused it. Beyond the research, planning out my project is just as essential. I thought out my initial design and scribbled it out onto paper to keep track of my initial thoughts of how the app should look and function as well as where I should start and end. Ultimately, I began with composing my XML files first, and then I proceeded to develop the code that would add functionality to the UI such as the add button. I will continue to apply what I have learned in the future by incorporating these practices to provide professional and acceptable applications for users.


- How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?

  To test if the code was functional, I would actively run the application and test whatever functionality was implemented. I carefully looked over each screen and made sure that each interactable UI component worked properly. This allowed me to see any potential errors early on in the application, like for instance, I noticed that my SMS permissions did not work properly when implementing and testing that functionality. Catching this error early on prevented me from having to backtrack through all of the code trying to figure out what went wrong which would have been costly to time and productivity. Going into the end of the project, I did a full run of the application to see how the code behaved when implemented all together. I began by signing in as a new user and checking to see if both the accept and reject SMS permissions buttons worked properly. Moving beyond the SMS permissions screen, I made sure the main screen worked properly by adding, deleting, and updating items on display. Once confirming that CRUD worked, I proceeded by making sure my warning SMS worked by setting an item in the inventory to a quantity of 5, and then over 5. Lastly, testing to make sure the signout button works properly is as essential as everything else. Doing all of this allows me to confirm that the app is really fully functional and does not crash at any point or act unexpectedly.


- Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?

  I believe my biggest challenge wsa in the planning phase. While I felt ambitious, and desired to develop the app, I found myself having a difficult time with coming up with ideas and designs that would make my app stand apart from other apps that perform similar tasks to mine. Given that there is a plethora of applications on the app store which serve as some type of inventory management, I had to really think about how I could create something more unique and yet alluring enough for a new user to choose my app instead of others that serve a similar purpose. To overcome this challenge, I looked over several apps similar to the app I was designing, and I even looked over apps unlike mine just for inspiration and ideas of how I could make my app different from others while still serving similar purposes. In the end, I was able to come up with something that I could be satisfied with as an initial start to the application.


- In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?

  I would say that implementing the buttons and fields for item information was the easiest part of the application for me. I can see similarities between Android development and frontend development using HTML and CSS. Using those similarities, I was able to tie in the same logic, like how buttons use onClick to execute a Java function and like how input fields use the DOM to read and accept inputs from the user. Even stylizing these components felt fairly straightforward because of the way it behaves like Tailwin with defining each feature and detail of a component within the component itself instead of a separate CSS file.

___

- Proceeding into the future, I would like to reuse the code for this application. I have a website built for a food truck where the client is able to use CRUD on an admin page to update the display of menu items on the main webpage. I would like to expand on that by connecting this application to the website to allow the client to update the display from either the website or the mobile application. I will have to revise the design and some of the work such as the implementation of the database, but most of this will remain the same.
